now we get to actually my favorite part
of lecture series which is relationships
I think relationships are absolutely
fascinating and I think the
relationships that we form online and
how gamers connect to other people
through the internet is just an
absolutely fascinating topic so just to
give you guys a little bit of
information
I started playing Starcraft with this
guy when I was 15 years old and then
like over the next 10 years of our life
we were like gaming together never met
the dude and then when I ended up
getting married I actually invited him
to my wedding which all of my like like
my bosses and professors and stuff when
I tell them that they're stuntin but I
think you guys will understand what I
mean because like the relationships that
we form through online gaming can
actually be really authentic and I'd
really like to start there
talking a little bit about the
authenticity of online friendship so one
of the things that's really interesting
about when you meet someone online is
that the internet really blinds people
to all the kinds of things that we tend
to judge people for so when you talk to
someone on the internet you don't know
if they're black or they're white or
they're Indian or Hispanic or Asian or
any of that well maybe you do depending
on their name or their voice or the
accent but generally speaking the
Internet is blind you don't know if that
person is rich or they're poor you don't
know if they're they're attractive or
unattractive you really don't know
anything about them and if you think
about the real world the real world is
incredibly judgmental and if I walk into
a room and you know I have this fleece
which has like the Harvard logo on it I
get treated differently people give me
respect that I'm not I don't actually
deserve just because of the institution
that I'm affiliated with that says
nothing about me I mean like even the so
for example my sister-in-law I gave her
one of these fleeces for like just to
wear because I had a next one and so she
walks around and she kind of you know
wears this fleece and people think she's
affiliated with Harvard Medical School
which she's not but so people just judge
other people based on all kinds of kind
of shallow criteria right yeah if you're
if you're a pretty girl or a good
looking guy you're more likely to get
better service at a restaurant and so
the real world can actually be
incredibly racist and shallow and unfair
whereas when you meet someone online
they're gonna go tell you to go
yourself because of who you are not
because of the color of your skin right
they're gonna they tell you that they
want to your mom because of who you
are and it's not blinded by race or
ethnicity or gender or anything like
that
actually genders you know an interesting
exception because a lot of times gender
does create a lot of really bizarre and
sometimes toxic mechanics online so I'll
steer a little bit clear of that so the
interesting thing about relationships
over the Internet is people sort of see
you for who you are
they judge their friendship of you based
on what you say in how you act and how
you play the game and so in a sense
you're judged on a more authentic level
than based on the color of your skin or
how attractive you are or what kind of
car you drive because none of that
matters on the Internet
so the Internet is amazingly you know
kind of like they say justice is blind
the Internet is blind and people tend to
get valued for who they are instead of
some attribute of their birth or their
parents and so I think that's really
powerful and I think that's one of the
things that I like the most about
relationships that form on the Internet
is they feel more authentic to me the
other interesting thing about
relationships that are formed on the
internet is that they tend to be in a
lot of stresses sense and a lot of
senses stronger than the relationships
that you form in real life and that has
something to do with that has everything
to do with just simple things like
geography so I'll give you guys an
example you know when I was in high
school I had a particular set of friends
and I'm sure you guys are whether you're
in high school or college or working or
whatever you have your group of friends
right and then if you think about it
like when I left my small town in East
Texas and went to the University of
Texas at Austin I sort of left my
friends behind some of my friends came
with me and then I made a new group of
friends I sort of stayed in touch with
some people from high school but I had
this kind of news
friends and I thought that those guys
were gonna be like the best friends from
my life I joined a fraternity it was
awesome I had a fantastic time and then
after I finished college I actually
moved to Boston where I ended up as a
research assistant and so I sort of left
all my friends from Texas behind and
then went up to Boston and made a new
set of friends and then I ended up
leaving but that job in going to medical
school and so I made a new set of
friends in medical school and then I
left medical school and went to
residency and made a new set of friends
when I was training to become a
psychiatrist and so when at the end of
the road when I'm making friends with
people who are also gonna be
psychiatrists I've gotten so far away
from the people that I hung out with in
high school that that those
relationships have basically ended the
interesting thing is that the friends
that I made online through gaming were
the friends that I took with me at each
step of the way
so even after I left high school I still
was playing Starcraft with the same
group of people and then we started
playing Wow together and then we started
playing F of 14 and then we started
playing dota and lawl and other MOBAs
and like now we play some overwatch but
those same sets a set of people are the
people that I've been hanging out with
on Friday nights for the last decade of
my life and so those are the people that
I actually feel the closest to and
that's why it's so crazy when you think
a little bit about inviting this guy to
my wedding who I've never met before
it's because he was there when I started
dating my wife like I said I distinctly
remember you know we've been playing
games for like six years together now
and you know I disappear for a month or
two and then I log on one day and he's
like dude where the have you been
like you haven't been online for two
months and I was like hey man I met a
girl and so like you know he gave me
about it and then he was kind of
there before my relationship started he
was there when my relationship started I
remember talking to to him about my wife
and like sort of you know thinking that
it wasn't gonna last and it wouldn't
work out because I was junior and she
was a freshman and all this kind of
stuff but and so he was kind of there as
is I decided to move to Boston and then
she decided to move to New York and then
when she moved in with me so he was kind
of there at the start of my relationship
before my relationship and as my
relationship had grown and progressed
he was kind of aware of the whole thing
and so he was actually a really true and
authentic friend of mine and so I think
that we have to start off by
understanding that gaming isn't all bad
that gaming actually offers us a lot of
things that are really positive and
really powerful in our life not just in
terms of coping mechanisms but that it's
amazing that there's this part of the
world where you can go and not be judged
for how rich or poor you are not be
judged for the color of your skin and
that you can form authentic connections
with people that will stay with you no
matter where you go in the world and so
I think that's really powerful and the
first thing that we have to understand
about relationships and gaming is that
there are very real relationships that
are formed through gaming yet those
relationships can be authentic and
important and actually be a big part of
your life and so I think it's just
important for us to stop and acknowledge
that for a second and you know I think
later on we'll get a little bit into how
gaming negatively impacts your
relationships and whether gaming sort of
keeps you from forming friendships in
the real world because you have this set
of really authentic friends that you
spend every weekend with and that can be
part of the problem but I think we have
to first understand that gaming offers
us something and unless we know what
functions it serves for us we're never
going to get control over it and so the
way that we start with relationships is
simply by acknowledging that the
relationships we form through gaming are
blind and actually not based on and are
permanent